I wanted to give you a visualization
of thinking through these
different mechanisms,
these different techniques.
There's a logic problem that I
was presented in a job interview
20-something years ago.
And I, after being presented this,
almost immediately started using it
myself when I gave job interviews
because I just loved the idea of this
problem and what it illustrates.
And so some of you may have heard it.
Some of you may have never, it's
the problem of the eight golden spheres.
And we have eight golden spheres here and
we have a traditional balance scale,
meaning that it is only balanced
when the weight on both sides
of the scale is equal.
What we're told about these golden spheres
is that they are identical in texture,
size, shape, color, everything,
except one of the eight.
We don't know which is imperceptibly
lighter than the other seven.
That's the only thing that
we know about the problem.
We know that one of them weighs a little
bit less not enough that you could hold it
in your hand and tell?
But we know that one of them is less
than the problem is how do we find it?
How do we find the odd one out?
How do we find the lighter one?
There are multiple ways
to solve this problem.
But when presented in a job interview,
what they're kind of looking for
is like how do you translate
a real world problem?
Into an algorithm, into data structure and
algorithm approaches.
So rather than put you on the spot,
some of you are still working through your
first cup of coffee rather
than put you on the spot.
I'm gonna walk you through three
different ways to solve this problem.
We get three different answers to it.
But the basic setup is how do
I use this balance scale to
guarantee in the worst case
that I find the odd ball out.
And what's the minimum,
worst case number of usages of
the balance scale to get that?
So perhaps some of you
are thinking right off the bat,
I'll stick one ball on either
side of the balance scale.
And if they're equal,
then I've eliminated those two because
neither one of them can be the one.
If they're unequal, then I immediately
know which one was lighter.
It's the one that went up.
In the worst case, they were equal,
so I need to go on to two more.
And in the worst case, those were
also equal, so I go on to two more.
And in the worst case,
I've eliminated six now.
Have used the balance scale three times.
And on this final fourth time,
I'm guaranteed to know
which one was the lightest.
So in the worst case,
we used it four times.
And this is an iterative
approach to the problem.
We took two elements, we compared them.
We kept going until we had gone
potentially worst case through
the entire data set.
And we have guaranteed ourselves that we
found it similar to a search algorithm,
iteratively going through this is
effectively a search algorithm, right.
So a lot of times in a job interview,
somebody says, 4, that's the answer.
That's the minimum number of usages.
And the interviewer might nod and
say, that's a good answer.
But if I told you that there's a way to do
it in fewer usages, how would you do that?
Okay, so
let's flip the script around a little bit.
Instead of starting with one on each side,
let's start with more
than one on each side.
In fact,
let's start with four on each one.
Right, we've got eight balls.
Let's divide it in half.
We'll put four on one side,
four on the other side.
Now, what this usage of the scale
is gonna tell me is that I know
that the lighter one is in a set of four.
It's on one side of the other.
But I don't yet know which one it is.
I've just narrowed my problem down.
You follow me?
So let's say it was the left
hand side that was lighter,
then we take those four and we split
them in half and we put two and two.
Now I've eliminated two more,
I've eliminated a total of six,
I'm left with only two balls for sure.
I know it's one of those two,
I put them on the scale a final time.
Now I've used the scale three times and
this is the binary search,
it's recursive solution to the problem.
So when you're on a job interview and
somebody's asked you this, and
you might jump immediately
to the recursive.
But many people jump first
to the iterative, and
then they realize,
I could have done it recursively.
And so they got it down
from four usages to three.
We have a more optimal algorithm.
But then the interviewer gets a little
glimmer in their eye and he says,
what if I can tell you that it
can be done in fewer usages?
How would you do it in fewer?
We went from one and one all the way to
the other side doing it in four and four.
We can't do more than that.
We can't do like eight and eight,
cuz there's only eight total.
So by process of what we call discrete
math, there's only two other choices,
right?
We can't put an uneven number
of balls in the scale.
That's not gonna tell us anything,
they have to be even so
we can either put two and two and you
could run through that mental exercise.
I didn't create that as a slide but
you could either put two and two or
you could put 3 and 3 so,
let's just try 3 and 3.
We're gonna put three on either side.
Now, what's gonna happen?
There's two possible outcomes, either
we're going to see the balance scale
completely balanced, which means we
have eliminated six of our balls.
And in that case, we only have two left,
we only need to use the scale one more
time to identify the odd ball out.
You follow me?
But what if one side is uneven?
How many have we eliminated in that case?
Let me see if you're awake.
If we put three and three on there and
the scale is not balanced,
how many balls have we
eliminated by that usage?
Five, good.
Five because we have the three
that we know are heavier.
And the other two that we didn't even try,
we know that they're not it.
We know that the problem ball, or
the odd ball is in this set of three.
But that's not an even number.
How are we gonna use the scale?
Well, we've used it once.
And now we've narrowed our
problem down to three.
Now you simply pick any two and
weigh them.
If they are even, you know by process of
elimination it's the one you didn't try.
If they're uneven,
you know that it's the one that's lighter.
So in the worst case scenario,
we only had to use the scale twice.
So what is this algorithm called I
call it the fuzzy search algorithm I
don't know but can you see how we
thought a little bit outside of the box.
We asked something more of our
problem which is it definitely
true that I can only use
the scale with an even number.
We understood something about the nature
of, again, what we call discrete math.
You can't divide the balls, so
we only have a fixed number of possible
balls to ever put into this problem.
Now let us know that we have one on
either side, two on either side,
three on either side,
or four on either side.
That's our fixed problem space.
So we could examine that in both cases.
A lot of times when somebody's
faced with this on a job interview,
they kind of tense up and
get a little bit frustrated.
And something as basic as that,
all you have to do is try
the four possible things.
You don't have to solve for
millions of possible combinations.
There's only four possible.
If you have a computer science background,
that immediately jumps out to you as
a discrete math principle,
similar to the birthday problem.
If you heard the birthday problem,
which says that if you have 95% or
if you have more than 30 people in a room.
There's a 95% chance that at least two
people in the room have the same birthday.
And we actually solved that.
I'm not gonna do it here for you.
But the derivation of that answer
is actually discrete math.
So when you have a more formal background,
some of that might jump out.
But even if you didn't have the formal
computer science background,
you can reason about the idea and ask the
question, am I allowed to divide the ball?
Am I allowed to divide the sphere?
No, okay,
that tells me something pretty important.
What it tells me is that I can only
put even numbers of things on there.
I can't divide the balls into half and
half or whatever,okay?
So asking those questions and
understanding the answers to those
questions will guide us to very
different solutions to the problem.
In this case, four versus three versus
two not a big deal, but the principle
underlying it is the principle that
as an algorithm and the engineer.
We need to get comfortable with.